{'answer': [['I was wondering, why in Newtonian physics ', ' is called "torque" while in static mechanics they call it "moment"? ', 'I prefer by far the term "torque", for not only it sounds strong, but also instead of moment, the correct synonym of torque is moment of force.', 'Torque is the informal, practical man\'s way of calling this thing; the moment of force is the more quantitative, scientific term which is better at expressing the formula \n$$ \\vec \\tau  = \\vec r \\times \\vec F $$\nThe position $\\vec r$ and the cross product, for this specific case, are responsible for the words "moment of" while $\\vec F$ is the force.', 'A similar addition of "moment" to other terms is the way to express other quantities although the terminology isn\'t quite systematic. For example, the angular momentum $\\vec L = \\vec r \\times p$ is derived from the momentum $\\vec p$ (well, the word "moment" was already inside "momentum" so people added "angular" instead because "moment of momentum" sounds awkward). The moment of inertia is a quantity like $I = mr^2$ which differs from the (inertial) mass $m$ by powers of $r$, too.', 'When trying to understand why words are used to describe certain things, it often helps to look at their ', '. For moment:', 'Moment would appear to come from Latin for "moving power". The works of Archimedes including ', ' which contains statics and levers, was translated into Latin by Gerard of Cremona (c. 1114–1187 AD). Therefore it seems likely that Archimedes used "moving power" to describe the effect of a lever in moving a mass on the other end, and being proportional to the product of the applied force and its distance from the fulcrum on the other end. ', 'Turning our attention to torque ;)', 'And it seems likely that it comes from latin "to twist".', "I would conclude that torque was meant to describe a force that twists an object about its main axis, while a moment rotates the main axis. Think of a long cylindrical steel rod where the main axis runs along its center. For objects with no obvious main axis, one person's torque is another's moment depending upon what the main axis is chosen to be.", 'I have been wondering a long time about that particular question too, and I think there is no simple answer.  For example, at Wikipedia they consistently use symbol $\\vec{\\tau}$ and explain:', "In US mechanical engineering, the term torque means 'the resultant moment of a Couple', and (unlike in US physics), the terms torque and moment are not interchangeable. Torque is defined mathematically as the rate of change of angular momentum of an object. The definition of torque states that one or both of the angular velocity or the moment of inertia of an object are changing. And moment is the general term used for the tendency of one or more applied forces to rotate an object about an axis, but not necessarily to change the angular momentum of the object (the concept which in physics is called torque).", 'However, in ISO 80000-4 they use symbol $\\vec{M}$ and call moment of force $\\vec{M} = \\vec{r} \\times \\vec{F}$, while they call torque only a component of moment of force "directed along a Q-axis": $T = \\vec{M} \\cdot \\vec{e}_Q$', 'IMHO, torque and moment ', ' are perfectly interchangeable, while word moment can be connected to several physical entities.  Also, it seems that in anglo-saxon countries symbol $\\vec{\\tau}$ is prefered, while in the rest of world and according to ISO standard $\\vec{M}$ should be used.', 'I would prefer that torque be used as well. Why is moment of inertia then not a cross product, if moment of force is a cross product? This is mathematically inconsistent. I was confused by the fact that the cross product of r and F (what is the cross product code?) is called torque in physics and moment of force in mechanical engineering, and that terminological inconsistency would interfere with at least my ability to understand the concepts behind torque. I will accept it if both physicists and engineers would agree on a single term for this concept, but I would prefer torque because calling both a cross product and a regular product a moment makes it unclear what a moment actually is, mathematically. ', "['http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Torque', 'http://www.etymonline.com/index.php', 'http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Torque#Terminology']"], ['One of the most serious issues dealt with in ', "'s ", ', is the grasp of time -- the hero seems to be "lost in time". Throughout the entire picture the audience, and the hero himself, struggle to understand ', '. Which basically means - how much time has passed since he started this intensive "quest".', 'When the movie just starts, the audience tends to think that this whole situation is considerably "fresh"; but as the plot progresses (or actually, goes backwards), one might consider the un-optimistic fact that this "quest" might be taking place for years, and maybe the real goal was reached a long time ago, but for some reason (maybe a third party\'s interest, or a selfish decision) the hero is trapped in a "loop". \nI mean, he can\'t really trust his notes, Polaroid photographs and tattoos for this matter, because they all could be theoretically "sabotaged" to serve someone\'s interest. \nIn the ending scenes it is even implied that it might have been the hero ', ', who "sabotaged" his path in order to continue this quest; due to the fact that without this "noble" cause, his scarred existence will be empty of purpose. ', 'This situation is very chaotic indeed, and very hard to grasp - but, when thinking about this situation - the most logical thing to do is to obsessively ', '. ', "I mean, he works with all those kinds of police paperwork, regarding his wife's murder, and all of those papers should have dates on them (and also the tattoos), and If they don't have dates on them by default - it's really easy to find them. It's very easy to find out ", " how much time he's on this quest and it's very easy to know the exact date and time at any given moment (a hand watch with a date function, for example). ", ' ', "I don't think Lenny really ", " how much time has passed.  He's on a quest for revenge, whether that takes a month, a year or a decade.  He intends to keep going until he succeeds, so while the dates may be useful in establishing a more concrete timeline, they aren't going to make a difference to the one question he really cares about - ", "Of course, given Lenny's condition, dates are not really any more reliable than the other records he keeps.  If his notes, polaroids ", " are all theoretically open to sabotage (especially by himself), then why wouldn't the dates also be open to similar sabotage?  Handwritten dates on paper or polaroids could be erased, or recorded incorrectly.  Perhaps the method he uses to establish the date could be unreliable (ie: someone, possibly himself, edits the police report to change the dates.) ", "Dates in tattoos might make him realize he's been on the hunt longer than he would otherwise be aware, but again, he doesn't care ", ', only that he finds his revenge.  Knowing a particular clue is X years old would only make him more desperate and motivated to find SOMEONE he can kill and call it "justice."  And, of course, if he is sabotaging his own progress in order to continue killing, this desperation would get stronger over successive loops, but it wouldn\'t likely stop him from trying.', 'Speaking more generally about the movie as a whole, I think a lot of this is intended as commentary on human motivation and the dichotomy between belief and fact.  People tend to believe what they want to believe, even in the face of factual data that contradicts that belief.  They can sometimes come up with some truly mind-boggling excuses for why the offending facts should be disregarded.  This is especially true when a person\'s beliefs are strongly tied to a goal or driving motivation that they consider to be a sort of "life\'s work."  Admitting the flawsin their belief then becomes equivalent to admitting their purpose in life is somehow incorrect, which is something very few people are actually willing to do.', 'Lenny\'s quest for revenge is an extreme example, of course.  Movies use extreme examples of things because they tend to make for better drama.  Lenny\'s quest has become his life\'s purpose - to find and kill the man who murdered his wife.  But once that job is done, he no longer has a purpose.  This, coupled with his memory condition, is what leads him to continue the cycle.  So that he still has a reason to keep living, even with his crippling mental condition.  Given that, I don\'t think the use of dates (or any other \'solution\') would be sufficient to stop him.  He\'d either find an excuse to doubt the dates and thus stop trusting them, or he\'d come up with progressively more insane theories to explain what "must have happened" using the dates he has, given whatever the current date is.', "To add to Steve-O's excellent answer;", "Keeping track of time would be the worst thing Lenny could do. His entire world is anchored in his wife's death, he forgets everything after it, and rarely brings anything up that happened before it. His entire motivation is revenge for his wife's death, and the only way he sustains himself is by keeping that anger fresh - it fuels every interaction he has. ", "If he ever found out he'd been at this for years without a single success, it's all too possible to become demoralized. He'd question his purpose, his existence. If he hasn't found the killer after all these years, why would he find him now? Is he on the right path? He might even go in circles, trying to find out why he ", " found the killer - all of these things are completely unproductive. Lenny doesn't want questions, he wants answers.", "So the question isn't ", ' he keep track of time, but rather ', ' he?', '[]'], ["I know this is a weird question, but I'm kinda annoyed.", 'I met someone at my local gym. We started to talk from time to time and one thing leading to another we made out (not sexually) and are a couple as of today. We try to go slowly.', "It's been a few weeks now, but ", " They're Asian, bisexual, with very androgynous traits. Their name doesn't help me, I can't read Chinese, and we speak English. Clothing style is as ambiguous as the rest. Earrings are kinda boyish.", "I tried a few time to notice whether they would go the the ladies' or men's bathroom to no avail. (Whether they didn't go, or it was a mixed bathroom.) They stopped going to the gym and I didn't notice before which changing room did they use.", "How to tactfully check whether my new partner is a man or a woman? The result doesn't especially matter to me, but the uncertainty does. I'd like to know what to physically expect when I'll... you know...", "This person never presented themselves as transgender or as any unusual (statistically speaking, I don't mean to offend anyone) minorities. Even though we talked about similar topics, they never said anything showing they have any kind of special sympathy toward these people. AFAIK, they're not a member of the LGBT+ community.", "Let's take a few steps back...", 'You say:', "You also say that you're annoyed and have been trying to make note of which bathroom they use and the like.", "These are somewhat incongruent. It doesn't matter or it does. There's nothing necessarily wrong with having preferences, but be honest with yourself about your preferences. You may be bisexual and enjoy dating both men and women, but it sounds like you may not be pansexual, as in, you may be less comfortable dating someone who may not be comfortable in either of those binary categories.", 'Taking another step back, you need to know what ', ' mean by "', '". Are you talking about:', "It sounds like this person's presentation is androgynous, that obviously leaves you clueless about their gender, and sex. Their presentation ", " be telling you that they'd rather not be identified, or labeled, as either male or female... ", "The thing is, you don't know without asking, and asking will be an awkward conversation no matter what the case may be. Whether they strongly identify as a particular gender, and you haven't picked up on it, or if they'd rather not identify as a particular gender... this is likely to be an uncomfortable conversation.", "There's no ", " way to get around it. Many people don't use the restrooms, clothing, or other constructs that correspond to their assigned sex/gender, so trying to use these as sign posts may not give you the information you want.", 'So...', "If you really want to know, you're going to have to ask. Just be sure you know what you're asking, why you're asking, and what you intend to do with the information once you have it. Does it really matter to you, and if it does, why does it?", "As far as the conversation goes, be honest, but be gentle. Try to be self aware and aware that these are questions that may be intensely uncomfortable for the person you're asking. If the answers really don't matter, consider letting them disclose in their own time and in their own way.", 'As an aside...', "A few answers here mentioned checking state issued ID. That isn't exactly a great suggestion for a few reasons.", "For members of the LGBTQ+ community, this is generally a reasonable and respectful question regardless of the physical appearance of the person.  It indicates that you are not assuming that their preferred gender and their apparent gender are the same, but neither does the question imply that you think they are different.  You just don't know. ", "Of course, this won't necessarily tell you what the physical sex of your partner is, but it does open the door to conversations about gender where you might be able to find out. ", 'If they are not a member of the LGBTQ+ community, they are more likely to be surprised by your question.  But that does not mean that they are unfamiliar with it, or would take it amiss if you asked.  Unless you are unusually bad at reading faces this is probably not the first time your partner has caused confusion about their gender.  A tactful, reasonable question about their gender would likely be well received even if they had not heard it asked before.', 'Just ask, after setting up the topic in a way that makes the question natural. There is already too much cloak-and-dagger character to your concern.', 'Begin or steer a conversation towards gender identity (mention a celebrity, a recent controversy, watch ', ', there are lots of avenues), describe your own situation ("I\'ve always identified with my biological sex and consider myself a [whatever is true of you]", or something similar). Then you can present a statement like', "There is only so naturally a question as blunt and direct as this can be asked, and if it's legitimately not a big deal to you either way then it shouldn't be that big of a deal to ask about it.", 'When a person outwardly presents as androgynous, there are two cases to consider:', "In the first case, your partner is aware of the need to resolve this issue before an awkward reveal in the bedroom. If you ask them outright, they probably won't be upset by the question, but may be uncomfortable answering. If that's the case, express support and wait until they are ready to have that conversation.", 'In the latter case, any attempt to ask outright may be extremely embarrassing and/or offensive to them. Invite them to participate in an activity that would necessarily reveal their sex innocuously, such as going to a beach or pool, or to dress up for a fancy dinner.', 'A lot of the other answer here doesn\'t seem to follow the "tactfully check\' element. That means you want an objective independent source of information; asking is not checking. Asking opens the door to ambiguity and not to mention the most important aspect it can cause irreversible offense. The average person would get offended with that question (which is why the OP is asking the question here). I would imagine if your answer is "simply ask" then you haven\'t really read the OP\'s question.', "Also, it's important to know that the OP is trying to find out biologically which sex the person is. The OP wants to know what to physically expect, not the self-identification aspect. So asking would likely either offend the person or get you the person's gender and not their biological sex.", "What I would do is to show them your funny looking identity card of sorts and  have a laugh about it... Then you claim that it's unfair that they have seen you but not the other way around, at this point, hopefully they would shyly produce their ID card and then you can freely check out how old they are and which natural sex they are.", 'Another super easy method that you can use is simply ask to add them on social media. There must be clues in their pictures and/or how their friends interact with them. Pronouns and clothing, for example... Or how their family/friends addresses them (brother/sister/son/daughter/my girl/my boy).', '=== Proof that ID are more likely to be correct than asking ===', 'Premise 1 : Your ID naturally shows your birth sex.', 'Premise 2 : Not 100% of the country allows you to change your birth sex.', 'Premise 3 : If someone cares about concealing their birth sex enough to alter their government ID, then it follows that they will not simply tell you the truth just like that.', 'Situation 1:\nPerson is XY, ID still says XY, he identifies as male.\nBoth asking and Checking ID both give correct SEX (male).', 'Situation 2:\nPerson is XY, ID still says XY, he identifies as female.\nAsking gets you GENDER (female), checking gets you the native sex (male).', 'Situation 3:\nPerson is XY, ID is changed to say XX, he identifies as female.\nBoth Asking and Checking ID give you incorrect sex (female).', 'Thus, checking ID is "at least as correct" as asking and in some cases, more correct.', 'One possible way to find more information (not necessarily all, though) about ', "'s sex is to go together to the beach, an aquatic park, a swimming pool, or any other place where normally little clothing is worn. (Update: better yet, a nudist beach or nudist activity. Thanks to a comment for that! [now deleted])", 'But perhaps the most appropriate way to find that info about ', ' might be to ask. :-)', '(Though if you do not care anyway, why ruin the suspense? ;-) )', 'Update "to back up this answer with supporting information, as required by site rules":', 'It sounds like you should just have a discussion about sex to set expectations. You can start with basic questions about how soon that may or may not happen, etc.', "This is a completely normal and reasonable discussion to have when getting together with someone, and segues nicely into discussing specifics about what they like and what they want (or don't) in a relationship sexually and otherwise.", "So just have this discussion that you should have anyway, which often has an expected degree of awkwardness, but can be used to set expectations about any aspect of your relationship. At that point, depending on your partner, you could ask how much experience they've had with sex, likes and dislikes, etc.", "If you ask about their preferences with specific acts, you may get an answer that tells you what to expect regarding their physical sex characteristics, which seems like the main thing you don't want to be surprised by (it could certainly be awkward to expect one body part but get another, even if you're open to it going either way--if that made you hesitate, it could make them feel unwanted, so better to get it out of the way instead of being surprised in the moment).", "Edit:\nAlso in the vein of talking about sex and to offer a more concrete example: prior to actually having sex, you could talk about sexual fantasy. You can ask what they think about that turns them on, and if the right situation arises, you could ask for them to describe what they'd like you to do to them, or ask them to describe what you'd see if they undressed (possibly over the phone. Exactly how to approach it depends on how shy or how direct this person is, which may be influenced by culture).", "Here's another approach:", 'There are lots of "getting to know you" conversations that could get your partner to talk about their identity. Some topics were mentioned previously, but I have a few more.', 'A male friend of mine who cosplays as female characters a lot has oftentimes struggled to tell what gender a person is who is similarly cosplaying, and who may or may not be of different genders from their characters. I offered him some similar suggestions once he got started talking to some of them. ', ' If you fear a direct question will be interpreted badly, you could try a few of the following:', 'I am from Europe and I think a lot of the existing answers are not meant for Europeans. For most of Europe (all the parts I have lived in at least), Gender is Biology and not a self-personification like in the U.S. I can say that asking the conversation about pronouns or having them clarify the American version of Gender will lead to a really awkward and confusing conversation. So I would avoid this conversation. ', 'I would probably ask another person that either they work with or is somewhat familiar with them what their gender is. ', 'Ask them to say something in their language, pretend to learn the language or something and see if they respond feminine or masculine. ', 'Some others have mentioned asking for a name and that might work as well. ', 'Some mentioned comparing photo IDs. I think this would work for passports. Most of us have to carry a passport and ask to see a passport from the country or ask him if you can see if he has had such and such document and you want to compare it to yours. ', 'I would also ', ' asking about personal life experiences. Most of us are ', ' like Americans are.', 'Maybe try calling the person dude or brother in the language and ask if you can use that since you cannot pronounce the name. ', 'I asked this question to my girlfriend and she says to just ask what gender they are and get the awkward conversation over with. ', "I've been thinking about this one for a while, and I think you actually have at least two questions in your question.", "The first question can, in theory, be answered by techniques such as noticing what bathroom your partner uses. But as you've seen, that's not always simple. And if your partner is nonbinary, it's unlikely these observation techniques will work, since they will be forced to choose male or female when neither really applies to them. ", ' The downside to asking is that if your partner is binary and cis, there\'s a chance they will be offended that you have to ask. I think that\'s a small chance, and best overcome by "giving before you take", such as:', ' Pause a little. ', 'Then kind of trail off and see if your partner makes a suggestion, though of course they may suggest "partner" or "lover" or something else gender neutral. If they do, you could be so bold as to say "and your pronouns are?" though it\'s possible that they won\'t even understand the question and be angry that you asked. In that case you could try saying that you ask everyone even big bearded lumberjacks who are standing naked in front of you. (If that\'s true or close to true.) ', 'I don\'t think any amount of asking is going to prepare you for the underwear situation. If the person is in transition, then they may have genitals that don\'t match their presenting gender (or the legal gender on their id.) If they are intersex they may have both. If they are nonbinary or androgynous then once the clothes are off everything may be quite clear, but don\'t assume that\'s what is going to happen. It is likely that if they are trans or intersex that they will tell you before you have sex, so the less they say leading up to that moment the more likely they are confident that their physical gender matches their presenting gender and you know what it is. If you got a gendered reply to your request for a romantic title, and no clarifications or "wait, there\'s something I need to tell you" as the making out intensifies, expect that sex when you get to the naked part. ', "Assuming you're not in a hurry and you don't want to make it obvious where you're heading to, one option is to ask for few lessons of Chinese.", 'While the language is even more tricky in terms of gender than English, at some (early) point you get to words like "boy / girl" which will likely lead to "I am a boy/man" or "I am a girl/woman". It\'s natural to state your actual gender (however this will be the perceived one rather than biological).', 'Even if it does not automatically reveal the sex of your partner it may help building a situation where you can either ask plainly or ask your best guess and when corrected just blame your novice at the language.', 'The benefit of this approach is that it will show your additional interest in sharing something extra and putting some effort into your relationship.', 'You may also look for example at ', ". If you get to examples you should be able to immediately able to recognize the pattern. There is an obvious character signifying the female gender. I don't know though if it is used in any documents and it will require you to check some documents which can lead to an awkward situation (as mentioned in other answers).", "Note that knowing the name won't help much. As you can see for example on this ", ', there are many names used for both genders.', 'This question is quite similar to not remembering a persons name after interacting with them for too long to still be asking for their name.', 'I think you have three more honest options:', 'Anything else seems sneaky and dishonest (you may try some of the suggestions here nonetheless if you like).', 'In conclusion of your statement that the result doesn\'t matter, you must be bisexual yourself and have no "unpleasant revelation" to expect, so to speak, as a hetero- or homosexual person may have when "confronted" with a gender they\'re not attracted to.', "\nHermaphrodites (intersex nowadays) can be a mixture of both sexes, so a bisexual person shouldn't really have issues with that either.", "As a European I'm in agreement btw. with ApertureSecurity about the different approach and self evident understanding in comparison to American society.", ' So asking about especially their ', ' or gender identification may result in bewilderment or awkward embarrassment on the side of the party being asked.', 'Please note, transgender pronouns are still binary (he/she) and used here according to the sex the transgender person transitioned to or is in the process of transitioning to.', 'Non binary pronouns (them, they, ze etc.) for example are not even a noteworthy topic (and are quite a bit more problematic to implement) especially in non English speaking countries here, since many languages have male and female ingrained into them in prefixes or suffixes for example in addition to the pronouns to address the person.', '\nSome transgender people chose the gender neutral pronoun "it" surprisingly, despite being a bit strange to refer to a person as "it".', 'To summarize my reasons for my recommendation:', "There are a lot of answers here but one thing that hasn't been mentioned yet is what jumps out at me from the part of your question I'm quoting.", 'I\'m going to call this person your \'date\', if that\'s alright - it seems to fit. My first assumption is from your American English phrase "we made out (not sexually)" - being British I\'m guessing that means you kissed?', "OK so that's the background to my answer.", 'The main issue I picked up on is your annoyance. Is it with your date for not revealing their gender? Or is it with yourself for not handling the not-knowing patiently? ', "If your annoyance is with your date, is it because you believe that there's some deliberate concealment going on?", "If so and your date is concealing it deliberately out of shyness, you'll need to suppress that annoyance, or it could make an awkward situation turn really disagreeable when you decide you can't bear the suspense any longer. ", "I assume you're quite sensitive and don't want to look like a bull in a china shop in your attempts to solve this.", 'In fact to avoid such a situation you might want to back off from a relationship a bit and treat them more as a friend than a date for a period - that would give you more time to work out whether you can get into a relationship with this person without forcing a "gender revelation" discussion.', "It's obviously very difficult to dial back your feelings for someone especially if you're not the patient type, but if you can, it would be a good approach.", "Secondly, your date could be concealing their gender because they enjoy creating the suspense. Did you detect anything that supports that view? If that's the case then there is much less chance of hurting anyone's feelings and you could try any of the suggestions given in other answers.", "['https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Legal_recognition_of_non-binary_gender', 'http://www.u.arizona.edu/~kepeng/EastAsianCulture/Readings/R23.pdf', 'https://www.behindthename.com/names/usage/chinese']"], ['A man of mass m1 is standing on a disk with radius R and mass M at a distance r\n\n', 'The man starts walking around the disk with constant angular speed w1 and as a result the disk begins to rotate in the opposite direction with constant angular speed w2 (angular momentum is conserved). At the same time, the point mass m2 begins to move slowly towards the edge of the disk. The mass then falls off the edge of the disk.', 'The question is this: if the man were to stop walking after the point mass falls off of the disk, what direction will the disk rotate? Will it stop rotating, continue rotating in the same direction, or reverse directions?', "I'm basically going between 2 thought processes with this problem, and I dont know which is right:\n1) If the point mass os treated as part of the disk, then when it falls, the moment of inertia of the disk will be reduced. However, angular momentum is conserved, so the angular speed of the disk will increase as a result. This would then imply that if the man were to stop, then the disk would also stop.\n2) As the disk slides away from the axis of rotation, the angular momentum of the system increases in the direction of rotation of the disk. After the disk falls off, the angular momentum stays at the elevated level, so that when the man stops, the disk continues to spin in the direction it was originally spinning.", 'You have three relevant objects here: the man, the disk, and the mass. Each have its own angular momentum in terms of its angular speed:\n', '\n', '\n', '\nwhere the moment of inertia of the point mass is ', ' and its angular speed is the same as that of the disk, as you specified in the comments. Also specified is that the man will adjust walking such that ', ' is constant. Therefore, the only two time dependent values here are ', ' and ', 'Since the total angular momentum of the system is conserved, it must be that\n', '\n', '\nor rearranging for ', ':\n', 'Now, without knowing how ', ' changes over time we cannot determine what this expression becomes in general. However, you can use what you know about the signs of the relevant variables to determine if ', ' ends up increasing or decreasing as the ball moves outward. I will leave this to you.', 'Then from this you can think about just the angular momentum of the man and the disk. Consider what would happen if ', ' was suddenly reduced to ', ', and what that would then mean for the disk using the fact that angular momentum must be conserved between just the man and the disk during the stopping process.', "This is not the case. The ball is going to leave the disk is such a way that it does not impart/take away any angular momentum. Therefore, when the ball leaves the man and the disk won't experience any sudden change in angular momentum. You are probably mixing this up with some intro physics problems where a kid leaps off of a merry-go-round, in which case you have to consider the angular momentum transfer between the kid and the merry-go-round. The ball is not leaping off the disk here, it is just move off of it.", '[]'], ['I am usually skeptical of riddles online that have to do with Physics but this one struck me as they had an oddly specific answer to it. So my question is for the following picture:', 'I simplify a bit with placing the two men at the very ends and the middle man at the exact center of the log in line with its center of mass(considering log to have weight $W$). I know I have to find the normal reaction force on the middle man, suppose it to be $R$ and I know by solving moments that the normal reaction for two men on the sides are equal, both equal to suppose $F$. Now even if I solve using both resolving vertically and using moments I end with the same result of : $$2F+R=W$$ Even if I consider the two men at the ends to be not exactly at the ends but at a length $l$ from either side, we get using moments $2Fl+Rl=Wl$ which again ends up as $2F+R=W$. ', "So my question is, how did they get the result of the middle man having 25% more normal reaction force and if I'm missing any results here. Also, is it really possible to compare the normal reaction forces between the three men?", "This is a problem of Mechanics of solids. You are right in using the concept of moment equilibrium to get the equation 2F+R=W. But the thing is that this is a statically indeterminate problem. I'll tell you why, in the above equation you have two unknowns F&R. So for two unknowns you need two distinct equations, but here if you apply the other static equation of equilibrium    (sum of all downward forces = sum of all upward forces) , you get the same equation W =2F + R. Statically indeterminate problems are solved by basically two methods: force method and displacement method. I have a similar problem in my book solved by Castigliano's theorem. I will present the solution briefly. Let the length of wooden log be 2a. We can consider the situation in riddle as a beam of negligible self weight, under the action of the same weight W but with it being uniformly distributed over length 2a, \nhaving load intensity w, such that w*2a = W. ", '. ', "Now, under the condition that the two men on the ends are both totally extreme i.e 'a' distance away from the middle man and that they both exert equal force F on the log, then the man in the middle will have to exert a force R= 5/4 wa = 5/8 W; since w*2a =W. ", 'F will be equal to 3/8 wa = 3/16 W. Now, 2F=3/8 W & R-2F = 2/8 W= 0.25 W. Thus, the force applied by middle man exceeds the combined effort of the other two men by 0.25W or in other words the effort applied by middle man in lifting load W is 25% more than the effort of other two combined. ', 'Unless there is more to the puzzle than the image suggests, it seems to me fairly straightforward to show that the two outside men carry an equal amount of weight and the inside man carries any weight not carried by the outside men. If either outside man carries more weight than the other, the log tips over. The middle man can carry any amount of weight (he could even not be there).', 'This riddle is wrong because a log is far stiffer than a person, so the appropriate assumption is that the log does not bend, but people are squished down by an amount proportional to the weight they carry (replace people with springs). ', 'If the log remains horizontal and does not deflect, then each person is squished by the same amount, and thus each carries ', ' of the total weight.', "['https://i.stack.imgur.com/EV6Nj.png', 'https://i.stack.imgur.com/tEwcD.png']"]], 'domain': ['stackexchange', 'stackexchange', 'stackexchange', 'stackexchange', 'stackexchange'], 'success': []}